And so this is really useful for
debugging or
just getting a glance at what state is my
application currently in as it's running.
We also talked about adding the states and
transitions into the machine in a very
similar way like we did with the previous
exercise of having that objects notation.
So, if we go in here.
And we remember that our state
machine is supposed to look like this.
Where we have a loading, playing,
paused state and the loaded,
play and pause events.
Then hopefully you're
getting more used to how to
actually add these states and
transitions into XState.
You want an initial state at first, so
that's going to be our loading state and
then we want to specify all of
the states that we have in our state
machine which is loading,
playing and paused.
Now to specify a transition inside
the loading state, we put it
inside the on object which stands for
on this event, we go to this state.
So on the loaded state,
the way that we specify this XState,
the full way is by giving it
an object with a target of playing.
And so what this is going to do is it's
going to say if we're in the loading state
and the loaded event happens, go to
this next target state which is playing.
Now a shorthand for
this is if you have no other actions or
things to specify in
the object you could just put
the key of that state inside as
the value instead of the full object.
Both ways work both ways are the same.
I do recommend you use
the object especially if
you're going to add actions and
conditions, and
things like that that we're
gonna talk about in the future.
So in the playing state, on pause,
we go to the paused state.
And in the paused state,
on play- We go to the playing state.
Now below you see that we already have
the machine being interpreted and
we also have the step tools true thing.
And I'll show you what
that does in a minute.
But this starts the service so
that it could start receiving events.
What we also did, and just for the sake
of time, it's already done for you.
We have a bunch of elements
that we could access.
And so, we're adding event
listeners to each one of them.
And so, this is going to be
an important pattern using whatever
framework that you plan on using with
XState, is that the only thing that
should really happen inside events
listeners is sending an event.
And so this alone simplifies
the implementation of the logic in your
application and it also allows
you to centralize that logic.
So now, when we click a button for
instance, all that's doing is being
translated to a play events and same
thing over here with the pause button,
when we click it,
that's being translated to a pause event.
And so we're also subscribing to
the state because we do want things to
happen on the screen.
So, we want the loading button to be
hidden if the state doesn't match loading.
We want the play button to be hidden.
And so now instead of using matches
we could do something else.
Since this play button
is based on an event and
not the states,
we could do it if we can't play.
So the state machine does make this
obvious where if we're in the playing
states then we can't play because
that transition is not defined.
And so the state.can method allows
you to do this pretty easily.
And say if sending this event is not gonna
cause a transition in the state machine,
then this is going to return false.
Otherwise, if it will cause a transition,
it's going to return true.
So it is really useful and
you could use either dot matches or
state.can to control the UI.
So congratulations.
And when we go into
the actual application-
We see that this pause play,
pause play it works.
And so, again when you're testing machines
or you just want to debug them you
could attach the service to the window-
And you could send events that way.
So, for example,
now we can see the loading state and
that's because I commented
out this loaded event.
And so if we send the play,
nothing's gonna happen.
We're still gonna be in the loading state.
And that's because we
haven't loaded the data yet.
So, if we instead send loaded now
that changes to the plays states, and
I know it confused me
before in the past but
showing the pause button means it's in
the played state because it shows like,
okay, you could pause it
because it's playing.
So you could click pause, and now it's in
the play state, pause state, play, etc.
So if your app in this
file looks like this and
it behaves like this, then it's working.
So congratulations.
And so this is really useful for
debugging or
just getting a glance at what state is my
application currently in as it's running.
And so this is really useful for
debugging or
just getting a glance at what state is my
application currently in as it's running.
So you could import inspect
from XState inspect and
then give it a couple of options.
By default it's gonna try
to find an iframe and
this option might be changing in the
future or this default might be changing.
And we also wanna open it up
in stately.ai/viz?inspect.
And so what this is gonna do
is it's going to visualize our
machine as it is running in the app.
And so this is what we call
inspecting the state machine.
So right now we see that
it's in the loading state.
And so this is really useful for
debugging or just getting a glance
at what state is my application
currently in as it's running.
[COUGH] So we can press pause to pause it.
And now we see it's in the paused state,
but
one cool feature about this inspector
is that it goes both directions.
You could also click play over here and
cause the machine to be playing.
So it's bi directional,
it's going to work both ways.
And so this is really useful for
debugging or
just getting a glance at what state is my
application currently in as it's running.